I want to setup some scripts to distribute the colors of the biome to be easily differentiable from eachother as well as unique.  I will describe the process I would like to follow to establish this, but there may be alternatives.

In order to maximize visual differences in biomes, I would like to use LAB color space to select points that are equadistant.

There will be multiple regions of the LAB colorspace reserved for different biome catagories.  These regions may be grouped by meta regions, but regions would be defined as primatic rectangles located  in the LAB colorspace.

A. The meta region near the +b (yellow) and -a (green) color will be reserved for standard biome climate colors.  This is the climate metaregion.  Note this meta region would be bounded by some alpha value and some beta value defining the cuboid up to the minimum alpha (green) and maximum beta (yellow).

Meta region would have a boundary of:
L: -100 to +100
a: -100 to +40
b: -40 to +100

The climate meta region will be broken into 3 layers:

A1. The layer highest to L+ (highest lumin) would be reserved only for snowy land biomes (SNOWY_LAND_BIOME), and is intended for biomes that have the term SNOW in them.

A2. The layer below would be reserved for standard climate zones.  Here the lowest alpha would represent the coldest climate, and highest alpha would reprent the hotest climate.  The highest beta would be the driest climate, and the lowest beta would be the wettest climate.

A3. The lowest layer would be reserved for sinkholes / carved canyons / deep valleys.

B. Coastal: with the boundaries of:
L: -20 to +100
a: -100 to -20
b -100 to -40

C: River: with the boundaries of:
L: -20 to +100
a: -20 to +20
b -100 to -40

The ocean region will be anything related to the ocean.  And would be defined as a region with the boundaries of:
L: -20 to +100
a: 20 to 100
b -100 to -40

C: 
Tempearture would range over the following dimentions:
L dimention, where 0 would be very warm, and +100 would be very cold.
alpha dimention: -100 would be very shallow ocean water



B. 

The closest points would form a equlatoral tetrahedron.a

#V2: Munsell Color Space

I want to setup some scripts to distribute the colors of the biome to be easily differentiable from eachother as well as unique.  I will describe the process I would like to follow to establish this, but there may be alternatives.

In order to maximize visual differences in biomes, I would like to use Munsell color space to select points that are well differentiable.

There will be multiple regions in the colorspace reserved for different biome catagories.  These regions may be grouped by meta regions, the sectional restrctions / dimensions of the regions will be noted below.

A. The meta region reserved for standard biome climate colors, with a boundary of:
Hue: 15 (Yellow / Red) to 55 (Blue / Green)
Chroma: Full scale
Value: Full Scale

The climate meta region will be broken into 3 layers sliced along different value levels.

A1. The highest level (highest value / brightness level) would be reserved only for snowy land biomes (SNOWY_LAND_BIOME), and is intended for biomes that have the term SNOW or very similar in them.

A2. The layer below would be reserved for standard climate zones.  The dimensions would scale according to:

Hue: Would scale precipitation, where Lowest value (15 from above) is driest, and the Highest value (55 from above) is the wettest.
Chroma: Would decrease (become more gray) as temperature decreases.
Value: Would increase as elevation increases.

Thus, the region here would have points in the colorspace that map back to the three biome climate dimensions of temperature, precipitation, and elevation.


A3. The lowest layer would be reserved for sinkholes / carved canyons / deep valleys with corresponding biome descriptors.

B. Coastal: with the boundaries of:
Hue: 55 to 62.5
Hue increases with depth.
Chrome: Temperature from medium (50%) to hot (100%)
Value: Temperature from medium (50%) to freeze (100%)
No need to reserve chroma for lower values.
Value for lower values could be for icey canyons.

C: River: with the boundaries of:
Hue: 62.5 to 70
Same defs as coastal

D:
The ocean region will be anything related to the ocean.  And would be defined as a region with the boundaries of:
Hue: 70 to 80
Same defs as coastal

E:
The crater region
Hue: 80 to 85
Chrome: Temperature
Value: Elevation

F:
The special region
Hue: 85 to 95
Chrome: Temperature
Value: Elevation

G:
Volcano region:
Hue: 95 to 5
Chrome: Temperature
Value: Elevation

H:
Mesa / Canyon region:
Hue: 5 to 15
Chrome: Temperature
Value: Elevation

I:
Icey canyons / trenches:
Hue: 55 to 80
Chrome: Temperature?  Lock at 50%?
Value: 25?