Omit "OldPromptAndReviewReferences" from generated pack folder?

Allow BiomeTable and Suggested Improvements to be generated in artifacts.

Fix pack to allow multiple preset selections?  Or still need to try this?

If this works, only create artifacts based on presets in the pack file, not in the presets folder.

Slow down temperature changes???

Fix crater lake water generation?

Add caves to coasts / rivers / arches / islands / mesa / vast-forest?
	Implement as a part of the attribute tagging script?

Integrate usage to readme.md?  Or into DESIGN.md?

Need to shift biome generation location on top of salt?  Is salt set?  Need to verify no duplicates.

Need to fuzz temperature, elevation, precipitation?  Or change overall distribution mechanism.

Add lakes?

To maintain shape: Frequencies should all scale together, amplitude should scale inversly.

Basic noise evaluation:

Temperature takes a long time to evaluate.  Is it overly complex?  Is it doing something with elevation?
	Answer - yes, elevation is clearing impacting this.

Precipitation isn't bad in terms of processing.
	Range from -.8 to 1

Q: Can I create a composite function that performs a full climate computation?  Just gets x/y, and uses continents function, and outputs a layered output from some number to some number that represents distinct zones?

Like Axx - elevation
xBx - temperature
xxC - precipitation?

Or derive more complex biome zones?  Need to evaluate current grouping?

Since all need to be executed, this would be very challenging to back-trace, better to make sure precipitation / temperature can be resolved very easily.

When building out terrain, should have major regions:
Mountains / Mesas / Giant Forests, these can all be distributed with perlin noise.

These need not necessarily be scaled to continental size or biome size.

Mountains / Mesas should be able to merge if applicable, based on low-frequency non fractalized threshold?

1. Verify continental layout, island generation, hill / rough / flat distribution, do this all via the customization function impacting the frequency of the corresponding functions.  Add offset and salt as needed.
2. Verify mountain / mesa distribution, and method of adding into output.
3. Update precipitation / temperature functions to use simplified elevation estimations.
4. Update all biome distribution within mountain regions, mesa regions, forest regions, how to apply noise to biome phase?
5. Update all other biome distribution?
6. Use method to update colors of all biome YML files.
7. Update ore distribution for base biome.
8. 

Review both terrain generations, considerations:

Original allows land below sea level
Original has interesting mountain generation - but may be costly.


Newer has more interesting continental interactions.


Target - Take original, change constellation expression to match new.
Take mountain mask, and generate two types of mountains based on either end of the updated mask function.

User herp for mesa height transition instead of current exponential?

Note: Continental can also be used to drive island creation... an interesting idea.

Regions:

Hills
Rough Patch
Flat (Generates naturally from continental?)
Mountian (A and B type)
Mesa
Sand Dunes

Latest fixes needed:
- Covered in sulfer now, but it should have just been a few sulfer blocks underground with the pillar smoke.


Sulfer caves incorrect:
- Missing cinnibar


Next:

First, fix latest issues introduced around various spot biomes: 

3 changes to make:

1. Almost all of the new features around spots appear to be inverting the distribution and locating sampler distribution.  Rim features are everywhere but the rim of volcanos.  Vegitation is substantial when I would expect it to be sparse.  Is there an invalid memory somewhere interpretting distribution of features incorrectly?

2. Sulfer caves need much higher generation rate of sulfer pools, those pools should be similar size and occurance rates as paper.

3. Make prismatic springs much smaller?   Right now they are probably 2x bigger than they should be, but this means the spot size of prsimatic spheres needs to be smaller than other spots, investigate methods to perform this.


Revert sister biome for mesas next to mesa-monuments or refactor, they are way too variable in height, obscuring the mesa shape.


Maybe special small surface sulfer biome?  Based on taverstine terraces?

Should we care about sulfer pools above sulfer caves?  They are inconsequential.

A lot of cleanup needed on surface biomes (Volcanos / Extinct Volcanos, probably need to be reverted)

Sulfer Cave fixes:
	- Still need much higher prevelance of sulfer lakes
	
Prismatic Sprint cleanup:
	- Increase chance?

Mesa cleanup

Spot features / trees 

Other pillar features

Ideally more carving to caves from surface

Sulfur terraces at 346,107295
2500,100 <- Small prismatic spring


1. 

So far:

Prismatic springs - still no smoke / magma?
Prismatic spring - Allows dead bushes anywhere there is not water.  Not seeing any dead trees like there are on sulfur terraces.
Prismatic spring - Need to be slightly larger, requires spot adjustment.
Prismatic spring - Water level should be higher, maybe the % fill level should be 50% t0 100% to the rim?


Add dead trees to prismatic spring
Check active volcano


Remaining:

Recheck prismatic spring
Check extinct volcano after cleaning potent springs
Check sinkholes after fixing water and adding addition features - maybe just some bamboo trees?
	- Make sinkholes an make them team with fish and other content?
	- Dessert sinkhole placement might be incorrect?  Is 
Verify frozen sinkholes after bringing to colder region, and no more carving.


sINKHOL


Create a "well" that can transport players up and down easily which can be found in the world, built by multiple layers.  Fully encompassed by 2x2 source water blocks in the center.

Placed on every non-spot surface biome, including oceans.

Should be placed using a cellular distribution similar to spots, likely similar distance between wells as well.

Label should perhaps be "WaterElevator" to clarify precisely what this is.

Would have the following layers "L*" ==>

L1 - Roof... determined by biome?  <= Place this as a part of the yml file structure.  Should be about 5 climates matching sinkholes.
	- Mossy cobblestone - Tropical
	- Quertz - frozen
	- Other climates?
*Everything below L2 can be common, and could be defined by a tesf file?
L2 - Bars with corner block, maybe inverted stairs + candle on each on signifying which is raise / lower?
	Note "Bars" here is just alternating waxed copper bar and then waxed copper chain.  Purposefully alternated so that the bars stay open.
L3 - Bars
L4 - Bars
L5 - Bars with landing platform (This part would on average align with the land, probably a surface placement)
L6 and below - Keep copying the same vertical pattern:
	3 y-layers of water and bars (where "3" is a variable that can be set?)
	1 y-layer with same water and bars, but outside corners have 4 candles  sitting on trapdoors beneath them.
		redstone torches for the half of the water elevator going down.
		soulsand torches for the half of the water elevator going up
Once y=5 is reached or lava is reached at any point along the level, stop creating the water, and set magma on one half to force one side of the elevator to pull the user down, and the other side to soulsand to push the user up.